hey guys so today I'm going to be
showing you how to make your very own
turban headband it's super simple and my
friends and I are all really loving this
trend since its carrying into the fall
season so let's get started and you
making your own turban you definitely
get to be more creative with it because
you can pick what color you want it to
be you can also size it to your head so
that way it won't be too tight and give
you a headache later because I know
that's happened to me with headbands and
all kinds of things all the time it's
really easy and it's also extremely fast
I personally love being able to just put
my turban on when I'm having a really
bad hair day so really quickly before we
jump into the tutorial I'm just going to
go ahead and take this turban off and
show you guys exactly what it looks like
when it's not all turbaned up so if you
undo the turban it actually turns into a
giant loop which is awesome because you
can also if you wanted to style it as
one of those really trendy loop scarves
but what you're essentially making is a
giant loop of fabric so with that said
I'm going to go ahead and explain to you
what you need in order to make one of
these so for this tutorial the first
thing you're going to want to get is
some fabric I got mine from the fabric
store and you're going to want to find a
fabric that has a little bit of stretch
to it so it'll fit to your head a little
bit more easily you're going to ask for
about two yards of fabric lengthwise and
this fabric actually used to be double
this width but I went with my friend and
we wanted to make turbans together so I
decided to go with her and we cut the
fabric right down the middle width wise
so this is about a foot and it used to
be about two feet the next thing you're
going to want are some needles you're
also going to want to get some thread
that is about the same color as the
fabric that you're going to be using it
doesn't have to be exact but as close as
you can get would be good and you're
going to want a hair tie or a rubber
band okay so the first thing we're going
to do is measure the fabric to our heads
so in order to make this a little bit
easier I'm going to put my hair into a
ponytail so the next thing I'm going to
do is measure the fabric for my head so
I'm just going to take the piece of
fabric and place it behind and I'm just
going to push it up to where I think the
back of the turban will hit on the back
of my head so you can place it wherever
you feel is most comfortable for you and
I'm just going to bring the two front
ends until they meet and are
approximately the same length on
their side and once I've done that the
next thing we're going to do is cross
the two pieces across each other like
this and you're just going to go ahead
and cross them one more time and this is
what gives us the knot in the front once
you've got them both crossed in the
front you're just going to take both of
the pieces behind your head and you're
going to tie it again like another
ponytail
as soon as you've got that done before
you do anything else make sure you play
with it and make sure that it will be
comfortable on your head I like to wear
my turbans with my hair down so the next
thing I'm going to do is take my hair
down exactly how I would usually wear it
and next I'm going to take my little
turban prototype that I have right here
and I'm just going to put it on my head
and see if it'll fit properly and if it
styles the way I want it to style so now
that I've played around with it a little
bit this is exactly how I envisioned
myself styling my turbans in the future
as you can see I still have my little
fabric ponytail in the back going on if
your turban isn't turning out exactly
how you want it you can always reinvent
her as many times as you need to or you
can pull more fabric out of the ponytail
or push a little bit more in in order to
tighten or loosen it so now that we have
our turban all done I'm actually just
going to go ahead and let the little
knots that we've made out and we've got
sort of this big loop and the excess
fabric so you guys can kind of see how
this is coming together now the next
thing we're going to do is we're going
to cut off this excess fabric and we're
just going to sew up the end so with the
excess we're going to want to measure
how much we're going to cut off of
course you could always just try an
eyeball exactly how much you need to
take off although I personally cannot do
that very well so if you can then you
definitely should or if you want to make
a small mark right here you can always
do that to you and then just kind of
make sure that you cut on each of the
marks on each piece don't forget to put
a mark on both pieces though because we
do have to take off excess from each
side so what I'm personally going to do
is I'm going to measure how much fabric
I need to take off so here I am
measuring how much I need to take off of
the ends you can use either a ruler or a
measuring tape if you have one remember
not to stretch the fabric because that
will distort how much you actually need
to cut off even though it doesn't have
to be perfect because it is a stretchy
material so what I'm doing here is I
laid out one end of the fabric and I'm
just going to use the scissors to mark
off how much I decided I wanted to cut
off the ends what's great about this is
that it doesn't have to be an exactly
straight line because you're going to
sew the ends that we cut into the fabric
so it won't be visible from the outside
so don't worry if it's not straight and
it doesn't look professional because you
won't be able to tell
so here I am just doing my best if
cutting the fabric as you can tell mine
doesn't look perfect and I'm just going
to go ahead and repeat that step on the
other side the reason I didn't just take
all of the lengths off of one side which
you can definitely do is because the
ends of the fabric I had looked kind of
weird so I wanted to cut off both of the
ends so here I am repeating the process
so once you're done cutting place the
fabric side that you want to be shown
facedown and bring all of the corners
together the next thing we're going to
do is sew all the way up this side so
that way we make that continuous loop of
fabric that we want unfortunately when I
was sewing this it was totally out of
frame but you get the general idea you
want to make sure you sell all the way
from the bottom to the top so once
you're done sewing your seam it should
look something like this
and what you're going to do next is just
flip it inside out
so once you've finished sewing and
you've got your little seam down the
back the next thing you're going to do
is take your loop and you're just going
to cross it over once like this and
cross it over again so that's the exact
same thing that we did earlier when we
were putting it across our head twice
it's the exact same thing so once you do
that it'll come out looking something
like this so just to illustrate this one
more time you want to twist it and make
like an infinity symbol and then twist
it again then you're going to stack the
part that has the seam on it underneath
the other side so you can hide the seam
so once you've got that all done what
you're going to go ahead and do is just
put it on your head however you like so
this is what our finished product looks
like that's all you have to do to make
your own turban if you guys want ideas
on how to style the turbans with
clothing keep your eyes peeled for my
fall fashions video thank you guys so
much for watching and I'll talk to you
next time bye guys